Special counsel Robert Mueller ultimately might conclude that there was no clear case of collusion between the Russians and associates of President Trump’s 2016 campaign. That’s still somewhere in the future. But he has already laid down a challenge to the president that no longer can be ignored.

Friday’s indictments of 13 Russians laid bare in ways the U.S. intelligence community had not previously done the lengths to which the Russians went to try to subvert the 2016 elections. Not just to sow chaos, though that was clearly a goal.

The 37-page document makes plain that the motivation of the Russians was to damage Hillary Clinton and help Donald Trump as much as possible (and also to help Bernie Sanders and Jill Stein).

The details tell the story of the Russian efforts to mess with U.S. democracy, from the creation of fake social media accounts to identity theft to on-the-ground research in the United States and to the purchase of social media advertising. The efforts were both large and small, from the insidious to old-fashioned dirty tricks.

The indictments allege the Russians communicated with unwitting members of Trump’s campaign in local communities. They sought to organize rallies. They put out false information. They paid for a demonstrator “to wear a costume portraying Clinton in a prison uniform” and wired money to someone in the United States “to build a cage large enough to hold an actress portraying Clinton in a prison uniform.” It is both comical and sinister.

For more than a year Trump has dismissed it all as fake news and a hoax. He has accused the FBI and the special counsel of conducting a witch hunt. It has been his hobby horse from the moment the issue was raised, even though it was Trump as a candidate who encouraged the Russians to hack and find Clinton’s lost State Department emails and who used his campaign rallies to trumpet hacked Democratic emails that were being released by WikiLeaks during the last weeks of the campaign.

The president’s reaction on Friday to the indictments was typically personal and self-exonerating. “Russia started their anti-US campaign in 2014, long before I announced that I would run for President,” he tweeted. “The results of the election were not impacted. The Trump campaign did nothing wrong-no collusion.”
