A MERE 22 years after the Ministry of Defence under Michael Portillo sold its family accommodation so the military could rent it back, the National Audit Office has put a figure on the rip-off: had the 55,000 houses remained in public hands, taxpayers would have been up to £4.2bn better off.
This corresponds broadly to the amounts that have been siphoned offshore in vast interest payments to the funds behind owner Annington Homes that are run by Guernsey-based Guy Hands’ Terra Firma outfit (highlighted in Eye 920 way back in 1997).

Buried in the NAO report were details of the extreme returns made by the investors: “Rising rents and house prices mean the actual [annual] rate of return was 13.4 percent for the period from the sale [in 1996] to the end of March 2017.” Looking ahead: “Assuming the current owners were able to sell the entire property portfolio, they would achieve a return on their equity investment of 56 percent.” Not without reason did public accounts committee chair Meg Hillier call the contract “a rotten deal for the taxpayer”.

Captive rental market
The auditors were too polite to mention the others making a killing on the deal, as the Eye has reported regularly. Jamie Hopkins, chief executive since 1998, becomes a millionaire all over again each year, thanks to his position sitting on investments and with a captive rental market. Last year, the latest accounts show, he trousered £1.4m, up on the regular £1.3m of recent years except 2012, when he bagged £2.7m.

With a major rent review on the way, and Annington citing a consultancy report recommending it be paid £84m a year more than it is now, Hopkins’ and Hands’ prospects don’t look too shabby. The MoD, meanwhile, is being helped in these negotiations by its “strategic business partner” on military housing, which happens to be… Capita.

Meanwhile, the rent MoD personnel pay has been almost static since 2010, due to the relationship between military rent and pay and public sector pay restrictions. The MoD has to make up the ever-increasing difference between what it collects from service families and what Annington Homes charges in rent. If the MoD increases its rent charges to military personnel, it will somehow have to increase wages too. This would be a double hit as wages impact on pensions, which would also increase.

There is no solution to this financial problem. As long as armed forces families live in tied housing, the MoD will have ever-reducing control of rents and their impact on wages and pensions, no matter which rent payment option the MoD chooses. As the deal grows less attractive with each passing year, the outsourcing nightmare continues.