A top Russian official dismissed the latest round of indictments in special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe as “just blabber” while U.S. officials said the charges made it clear the nation meddled in the 2016 presidential election.

“As you can see with the FBI indictment, the evidence is now really incontrovertible and available in the public domain, whereas in the past it was difficult to attribute for a couple of reasons,” White House National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster said while speaking at a Munich Security conference.

“But now that this is in the arena of a law enforcement investigation it’s going to be very apparent to everyone.”

Only minutes before, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov brushed off the charges.

“Until we see the facts, everything else is just blabber — I’m sorry for this expression,” Lavrov said.

He also argued that U.S. officials, including Vice President Mike Pence, have said no country influenced the results of the U.S. election.

The clash came a day after the Department of Justice charged 13 Russian nationals and three Russian entities as part of Mueller’s investigation into whether Russian meddling affected the outcome of the 2016 presidential race. They’re accused of running an underground social media troll campaign in an effort to help President Donald Trump beat his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton.

Lavrov denounced “this irrational myth about this global Russian threat, traces of which are found everywhere — from Brexit to the Catalan referendum.”

McCaster meanwhile, warned the United States is becoming “more and more adept at tracing the origins of this espionage and subversion.” He also laughed off suggestions that the U.S work with Russia on issues of cyber security.

“I’m surprised there are any Russian cyber experts available based on how active most of them have been undermining our democracies in the West,” he said to laughter.

“So I would just say that we would love to have a cyber dialogue when Russia is sincere.”